README.md, before:

[A][] [B][] [C][] [F][] [L][] [N][] [P][] [S][] [T][]
## [A]

### Archives

There are several pages that are associated with the term 'archive'.
  * Archive page: jg.com/archive handled by the template-archive and running its own logic.
  * Archive.php handles queries from the search 

## [B]

### Badges

Badged are in inc/badge.php
Mainset are all linked back to homepage.

## [C]

### Custom Fields

There a several more custom fields on my local version, but I'd like to keep them all to a minimum.

  * add_comments: used on mainset learn subpages, set to true to enable comments (note: also must allow comments on the page)
  * course keys: students something?
  * due-date: cf used on homeworks
  * intro-p: toki pona formatting issues I think
  * is index page: used on mainset to list the pages associated with it.
  * link: used on design pages to direct the title link to the website.
  * [nav-keys][nav-keys]: custom side menu navigation button
  * [script-keys][script-keys]: used for adding javascript to posts.
  * subtitle: Originally for the toki pona head page, this is also used on the archive page for page listings. 

### Categories

	query_posts('category_name=projects');

DEPRECIATED: Student news no longer a category, this can go on the top of the student page.

### Custom Taxonomies


#### Artworks

? Where does the unique catalogue number go?  In a custom field ?

  * year
  * Dimensions
  * Media
  * Categories (was once Project)
  * Tags
  * Featured Image

archive-artworks.php

content-artworks.php
## F

### Filters

As far as I can tell, the best practice is:
Main Query: use pre_get_post to alter the main query
Additional queries: use get\_posts($args) or WP_Query
DON'T use query\_posts()

[best explanation so far](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/1753/when-should-you-use-wp-query-vs-query-posts-vs-get-posts)

#### Main Query

This is run in fnx-filters.php
references:
http://www.billerickson.net/customize-the-wordpress-query/
http://wordpress.org/support/topic/custom-post-type-tagscategories-archive-page
http://designpx.com/tutorials/custom-post-types-author-archive/
http://codex.wordpress.org/Class_Reference/WP_Query


#### Additional Queries

Filtering the query to accept different types:

	$args = array(
	    'numberposts'     => 20,
	    'offset'          => ,
	//    'category'        => ,
	    'orderby'         => 'post_date',
	    'order'           => 'DESC',
	//    'include'         => ,
	//    'exclude'         => ,
	//    'meta_key'        => ,
	//    'meta_value'      => ,
	    'post_type'       => array('artworks','page','post'),
	//    'post_mime_type'  => ,
	//    'post_parent'     => ,
	    'post_status'     => 'publish' );
		
	$posts_array = get_posts( $args );	

Example found in inc/query-filter, used on archive page.

(parameters listed here)[http://codex.wordpress.org/Template_Tags/get_posts]
(or)[http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_list_pages]

Also see under Loops

## [L] 

### Loops

#### Homepage

##### Carousel

##### News

#### Recent

#### Projects

#### Design

#### Learn

#### Archive page

#### Links

## [N]

### Navigation

#### Sidebars

  * declared in functions
  * called in footer
  * defined in sidebar-left, sidebar-right

##### Left Sidebar

Static declaration of featured projects with links.  

Structure:

	div.feature => bkg. image of rip
		div.seal{type} => bkg. image of seal{type}, 
			a link to page{type} 
				image of sealIcon{type} // mostly transparent overlay.

seal image is an in-line style base on type.

##### Right Sidebar

	
#### Side Menus

The side menu is created in ID side menu. It comes right after the title header:

	<h2>php generated page title</h2>
	
	<nav id="sideMenu">
		...
	</nav>								

This can be attached on a per project or per page basis:

##### Per-Project Side Menu

Templates can call side menus on a per-project basis, if the menu needs to be customized manually.  This is how it works for the the t47 template.  It calls T47side menu and inserts it in:

	<nav id="sideMenu">
		<?php include (TEMPLATEPATH . '/inc/t47sidemenu.php' ); ?>
	</nav>														

##### Per Page or Post Side Menu using nav-keys [nav-keys]

Any page can have a customized side-menu navigation link. Uses pipe and not asterisk to avoid looking like comments in php with directory slashes. Can also use THEMEFILE# to direct to web12 theme

  * In Custom Fields:
	  * Name: nav-keys
	  * Value: label|link,label|link

examples:

*ART125*

	slides|/documents/art125/slides-min.pdf,
	slidelist|/documents/art125/slidelist-min.html,
	readings|/documents/art125/readings-min.pdf

*flypaper*



## [P]

### Pages

#### Projects Page

#### Archive Page

#### Posts Page

#### Design Page

Design page for content loaded within WordPress page.  All text is in markdown, images loaded with HTML a tags referencing /images/design/tag_thumb.img, dimensions 150 x 150.

classes:
  * design-image : floating thumbs

## [S]

#### script-keys

*Redesigned from what was header-lab.php*

LIMITATIONS: 
  
  * paperscript must be loaded as a string echo, after wp_head(), has not been implemented 
  * script and page html alignment (canvass ID etc.) handled by user
  * ignored on home and mainset pages to avoid calling on multiple posts

FORMAT: 
	
	type*name1,type*name2,...
 
Custom scripts are parsed in header.php. Dependencies are enqueued in wp_head(). Custom scripts are added in wp_foot()

### Shortcode

	inc/shortcode.php

#### homeworks list

#### galleria

shortcode for creating a gallery with images in the main image directory

version 1.0

example formatting within post entry:

	<div id="photo"></div>
    <div id="gallery">
		[galleria dir="/images/t55/" prefix="t55." s_suffix="s" l_suffix="m" type="png"]
		file1*Title One*2,file2*Title Two[/galleria]
	</div>
	<div class = "clear"></div>

so this:
	
		[galleria dir="/images/t29/" prefix="t29."]1**5[/galleria]

produces:

		/images/t29/t29.1_1_s.jpg ... /images/t29/t29.1_5_s.jpg

## [T]

### t47

t47 is collected in two areas, under the projects tab and under the learn tab. The projects page collects everything that is labeled T47: lessons, posts, and artworks.

#### t47 style

All t47 pages are styled via t47.css except for the artworks. The t-47 style is triggered when the body has an ID = 't47'. This happens in several ways:

Lessons: template-t47.php is hardcoded $templateID = 't47'
posts: All posts are checked for category in functions.php, and this becomes the $templateID
projects page: template-projects.php conditionally checks for t47 as the slug.

Commit message:

added post type 'pages' to carousel

README.md, after:

[A][] [B][] [C][] [F][] [L][] [N][] [P][] [S][] [T][]
## [A]

### Archives

There are several pages that are associated with the term 'archive'.
  * Archive page: jg.com/archive handled by the template-archive and running its own logic.
  * Archive.php handles queries from the search 

## [B]

### Badges

Badged are in inc/badge.php
Mainset are all linked back to homepage.

## [C]

### Custom Fields

There a several more custom fields on my local version, but I'd like to keep them all to a minimum.

  * add_comments: used on mainset learn subpages, set to true to enable comments (note: also must allow comments on the page)
  * course keys: students something?
  * due-date: cf used on homeworks
  * intro-p: toki pona formatting issues I think
  * is index page: used on mainset to list the pages associated with it.
  * link: used on design pages to direct the title link to the website.
  * [nav-keys][nav-keys]: custom side menu navigation button
  * [script-keys][script-keys]: used for adding javascript to posts.
  * subtitle: Originally for the toki pona head page, this is also used on the archive page for page listings. 

### Categories

	query_posts('category_name=projects');

DEPRECIATED: Student news no longer a category, this can go on the top of the student page.

### Custom Taxonomies


#### Artworks

? Where does the unique catalogue number go?  In a custom field ?

  * year
  * Dimensions
  * Media
  * Categories (was once Project)
  * Tags
  * Featured Image

archive-artworks.php

content-artworks.php
## F

### Filters

As far as I can tell, the best practice is:
Main Query: use pre_get_post to alter the main query
Additional queries: use get\_posts($args) or WP_Query
DON'T use query\_posts()

[best explanation so far](http://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/1753/when-should-you-use-wp-query-vs-query-posts-vs-get-posts)

#### Main Query

This is run in fnx-filters.php
references:
http://www.billerickson.net/customize-the-wordpress-query/
http://wordpress.org/support/topic/custom-post-type-tagscategories-archive-page
http://designpx.com/tutorials/custom-post-types-author-archive/
http://codex.wordpress.org/Class_Reference/WP_Query


#### Additional Queries

Filtering the query to accept different types:

	$args = array(
	    'numberposts'     => 20,
	    'offset'          => ,
	//    'category'        => ,
	    'orderby'         => 'post_date',
	    'order'           => 'DESC',
	//    'include'         => ,
	//    'exclude'         => ,
	//    'meta_key'        => ,
	//    'meta_value'      => ,
	    'post_type'       => array('artworks','page','post'),
	//    'post_mime_type'  => ,
	//    'post_parent'     => ,
	    'post_status'     => 'publish' );
		
	$posts_array = get_posts( $args );	

Example found in inc/query-filter, used on archive page.

(parameters listed here)[http://codex.wordpress.org/Template_Tags/get_posts]
(or)[http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_list_pages]

Also see under Loops

## [L] 

### Loops

#### Homepage

##### Carousel
Carousel uses the main query for the home page, which is filtered in fnx-filters to include 'artworks' 'post' and 'page' types.  It then uses an if statement to skip status posts.  

##### News

#### Recent

#### Projects

#### Design

#### Learn

#### Archive page

Arguments are set on the archive page, collecting 'artworks', 'post' and 'pages' types.  The number of posts is limited, and offset by a GET value sent to the page.  This is also used to trigger a previous/next page if there are more posts.  Finally the loop calls for the content displayed by content-bullet_archive.

#### Links

## [N]

### Navigation

#### Sidebars

  * declared in functions
  * called in footer
  * defined in sidebar-left, sidebar-right

##### Left Sidebar

Static declaration of featured projects with links.  

Structure:

	div.feature => bkg. image of rip
		div.seal{type} => bkg. image of seal{type}, 
			a link to page{type} 
				image of sealIcon{type} // mostly transparent overlay.

seal image is an in-line style base on type.

##### Right Sidebar

	
#### Side Menus

The side menu is created in ID side menu. It comes right after the title header:

	<h2>php generated page title</h2>
	
	<nav id="sideMenu">
		...
	</nav>								

This can be attached on a per project or per page basis:

##### Per-Project Side Menu

Templates can call side menus on a per-project basis, if the menu needs to be customized manually.  This is how it works for the the t47 template.  It calls T47side menu and inserts it in:

	<nav id="sideMenu">
		<?php include (TEMPLATEPATH . '/inc/t47sidemenu.php' ); ?>
	</nav>														

##### Per Page or Post Side Menu using nav-keys [nav-keys]

Any page can have a customized side-menu navigation link. Uses pipe and not asterisk to avoid looking like comments in php with directory slashes. Can also use THEMEFILE# to direct to web12 theme

  * In Custom Fields:
	  * Name: nav-keys
	  * Value: label|link,label|link

examples:

*ART125*

	slides|/documents/art125/slides-min.pdf,
	slidelist|/documents/art125/slidelist-min.html,
	readings|/documents/art125/readings-min.pdf

*flypaper*



## [P]

### Pages

#### Projects Page

#### Archive Page

#### Posts Page

#### Design Page

Design page for content loaded within WordPress page.  All text is in markdown, images loaded with HTML a tags referencing /images/design/tag_thumb.img, dimensions 150 x 150.

classes:
  * design-image : floating thumbs

## [S]

#### script-keys

*Redesigned from what was header-lab.php*

LIMITATIONS: 
  
  * paperscript must be loaded as a string echo, after wp_head(), has not been implemented 
  * script and page html alignment (canvass ID etc.) handled by user
  * ignored on home and mainset pages to avoid calling on multiple posts

FORMAT: 
	
	type*name1,type*name2,...
 
Custom scripts are parsed in header.php. Dependencies are enqueued in wp_head(). Custom scripts are added in wp_foot()

### Shortcode

	inc/shortcode.php

#### homeworks list

#### galleria

shortcode for creating a gallery with images in the main image directory

version 1.0

example formatting within post entry:

	<div id="photo"></div>
    <div id="gallery">
		[galleria dir="/images/t55/" prefix="t55." s_suffix="s" l_suffix="m" type="png"]
		file1*Title One*2,file2*Title Two[/galleria]
	</div>
	<div class = "clear"></div>

so this:
	
		[galleria dir="/images/t29/" prefix="t29."]1**5[/galleria]

produces:

		/images/t29/t29.1_1_s.jpg ... /images/t29/t29.1_5_s.jpg

## [T]

### t47

t47 is collected in two areas, under the projects tab and under the learn tab. The projects page collects everything that is labeled T47: lessons, posts, and artworks.

#### t47 style

All t47 pages are styled via t47.css except for the artworks. The t-47 style is triggered when the body has an ID = 't47'. This happens in several ways:

Lessons: template-t47.php is hardcoded $templateID = 't47'
posts: All posts are checked for category in functions.php, and this becomes the $templateID
projects page: template-projects.php conditionally checks for t47 as the slug.
